[[https://github.com/Blue-Sky-Skunkworks/missoula-civic-hackathon-notes/blob/master/images/missoula-civic-hackathon-logo-1-small.png]]

## Potential Projects for The Missoula Civic Hackathon

### Managing the Urban Forest

:evergreen_tree: :deciduous_tree:

The urban forests of most US cities are in serious decline and most of
the citizens of these towns are truly unaware of the future of their
beloved trees. I would like to build an open-source application to
bring civic involvement back to the urban forest.

### Time Bank

:hourglass: :dollar: :gift: :gift_heart:

The Missoula Time Bank could use a flashy app. An alternative currency
that gives equal value towards the often-times underrated services
such as child, elderly, and disabled care and facilitates people
working directly for the good of other people without all the modern
"conveniences" such as pointed-haired bosses, federal reserve notes,
and TPS Reports.

### Interactive Trail Map

:runner: :bike: :mountain_bicyclist: :couple_with_heart: :family:

An interactive map of all the bike and hiking trails in the
surrounding area. Could be chock full of useful information such as

  + a social element to schedule group outings
  + a dating element, tinder style, to meet up for bike rides and nature walks
  + a fitness element, to track your distances and routines
  + bike tour camping
  + leash regulations, dog runs
  + hours
  + parking
  + warnings for recent pesticide spraying
  + alerts / warnings / locations for recent animal (bear) sightings


    As an aside, I have a story here. A few years ago I went up to the
    Rattlesnake trail-head to hike and the US Forest Service service, in
    their own way of "saving" the forest, had closed off the parking lot
    to spray the trees along the walking and bike trails with carbaryl, known by the EPA as
    ["likely to be carcinogenic to humans"](http://npic.orst.edu/factsheets/carbgen.pdf). I
    questioned the forest service employee about it and she assured me of it's safety.

     "Oh, don't worry, they use it in our food supply."

    "Our" being the United Sates and Mexico, as carbarly use has been
    banned in Europe and abroad for quite some time. Carcinogenic and
    toxic to pollinators, [especially bees](http://extoxnet.orst.edu/pips/carbaryl.htm).

    If anything, the science says its persistent for at least a week in
    the environment.

    So I go back to the trail-head the next day and not a trace that the
    forest service was there the day before spraying and not a trace the
    trees that I and the many other people that day walked next to had a
    small film of a known poison slowly diffusing into the environment
    before it begins to break down. And by "break down", aren't we really
    just talking about the poison doing it's job - killing life as it
    expends its own last energy on its own destruction.


### Pesticide Spraying Map

:skull: :earth_americas:

Glyphosate has been recently classified as a carcinogen by the World
Health Organization and there are numerous reasons to question its
further dispersal into populated environments or food supplies when
safer alternatives are available. Some cities such as
[Durango CO](http://www.alternet.org/environment/chemical-free-park-sounds-wonderful-idea-heres-what-one-town-discovered-when-it-tried-do),
have adopted "chemical-free" parks and public spaces, and achieve the
same "weed" management with civic volunteers and natural weed control
methods. If citizens concerned about the spraying of public spaces
with known toxins were informed of the locations and schedules of the
spraying they would be more inclined to act toward their
mitigation. At the same time as this could be considered inciting
confrontation with the spraying "authorities", we can turn that aside
and bring the sprayers into the fold and turn the "spraying" map into
a "needing weeding" map and get the job done cooperatively without
poisoning the soil, our bodies, or the earth.


### Illustrative Agricultural Land Development Map

:sheep: :ram: :horse: :cow2: :pig2: :goat: :rabbit2: :apple: :pear: :eggplant: :melon: :grapes: :cherries: :chestnut: :mushroom: :herb: :honey_pot:

The development of agricultural land around Missoua has been a hot
topic lately. Let's build an interactive map of Missoula's
agricultural past, present, and possible futures. How much fertile
land has been turned into housing developments and how much more is to
be lost under the current plans and the various proposed plans.


### A Lyft/Uber style application for Pedicabs and Cargo Bikes

:bike: :package: :pizza: :apple:

With the recent changes in the Montana laws with regards to taxi cabs,
new information companies such as Uber and Lyft can now move into this
space. If the big guys can do it with cars and trucks, we can do a
more efficient job with bikes for many trip distances. We can build an
Uber like app for human-powered people, food, and cargo transportation
around town.


### Home Energy Usage Calculator

:house: :office: :school: :church: :fire: :shower: :toilet: :bath: :pizza: :apple: :beer: :wine_glass:

A web app that lets you enter your housing information, energy bills,
etc. and it calculates the amount of energy the house is using, and
therefore also the pollution to the environment required to support
the homeowners lifestyle, the extent of which they are probably
unaware. Numerous solutions to reduce usage can be suggested such as
tree planting for winter wind protection and summer shade, with
estimation of the energy saved for each suggestion. With geolocation,
we provide a comparison with the surrounding neighboors on a
leader-board and turn 'Keeping up with the Jones' from a destructive
impuse into a beneficial one.


### School - Parent Notification / Communications

:house: :office: :school: :family:

We get emails, phone calls, and text messages from MPS, but it could be more useful to have a (mobile) web service and/or app that could provide 2-way notification if/when appropriate.
If this caught on well for elementary schools, perhaps it could also be extended to Missoula pre-schools and/or other after-school programs, so unify / simplify how parents notify teachers of illness or other absences, etc.
